Sync guides for AT&AS [T2308] (#210)
cossacklabs/product-docs: acra/guides/integrating-acra-translator-into-new-infrastructure/acratranslator_configuration.md

---
title: AcraTranslator configuration
bookCollapseSection: true
weight: 1
---

# AcraTranslator configuration

Here we describe how to set up AcraTranslator to reach a state where it can process queries.

List of all command line flags for AcraTranslator is located

> [here]({{< ref "acra/configuring-maintaining/general-configuration/acra-translator.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in [Configuring and maintaining]({{< ref "acra/configuring-maintaining/general-configuration/acra-translator.md" >}}).
```

## Configuration file

> There are two ways of configuring AcraServer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways of configuring AcraTranslator:
```

* via command line flags
* via configuration file

The YAML file is passed with `--config_file=path/to/config.yml` flag.
To use this file as configuration source, you simply move flags into it,
`--foo=1` will become `foo: 1` and `--bar=test` will become `bar: "test"`.

Different configuration sources can be mixed if that makes sense in your situation.

## Listener

AcraTranslator will be listening on some default ports (gRPC API on `9696`, HTTP API on `9595`) if not configured to do otherwise.

> Related flags are located [here]({{< ref "acra/configuring-maintaining/general-configuration/acra-translator.md" >}}) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Related flags are located in [Configuring and maintaining]({{< ref "acra/configuring-maintaining/general-configuration/acra-translator.md" >}}) 
```
